Added Tutourial for JavalinMithril (#96)
javalin/javalin.github.io: _posts/tutorials/2021-05-20-frontends-with-javalinmithril.md

I came across JavalinVue a year or so ago, I absolutely loved the simplicity, so much so that I have contributed to it,  and the performance and quick development time have been key to the success of my projects and initatives(also a story for another time). This Plugin is inspired by JavalinVue(and a dare), and adresses the only shortcoming I found in it : you need to manage your component ids to be unique, otherwise it doesnt work correctly.

In this tutorial, we will go over the main workflow in JavalinMithril, and explain some choices along the way. There is no build system for the front end, But there is a well defined namespace(package) and class system that we need to stick to to get the results we want. 

## Setup
Our backend will be Java, and we'll be using Maven to build.
We need to bring in Javalin (web library), Jackson (JSON serializer), and JavalinMithril (front end). We also need the Webjar for Mithril.js\\
We'll also add Vue (view library) for our frontend:

> ```markup
> <dependency>
>     <groupId>io.javalin</groupId>
>         <artifactId>javalin</artifactId>
>         <version>3.13.6</version
>         <type>jar</type>
>     </dependency>
>     <dependency>
>         <groupId>io.github.javalin</groupId>
>         <artifactId>javalinmithril</artifactId>
>         <version>0.1.0</version>
>          <type>jar</type>
>     </dependency>
>     <dependency>
>         <groupId>org.webjars.npm</groupId>
>         <artifactId>mithril</artifactId>
>         <version>2.0.4</version>
>     </dependency>
>     <dependency>
>         <groupId>com.fasterxml.jackson.core</groupId>
>         <artifactId>jackson-databind</artifactId>
>         <version>2.10.3</version>
>     </dependency>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.javalin</groupId>
    <artifactId>javalin</artifactId>
    <version>3.13.6</version
    <type>jar</type>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.github.javalin</groupId>
    <artifactId>javalinmithril</artifactId>
    <version>0.1.0</version>
    <type>jar</type>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.webjars.npm</groupId>
    <artifactId>mithril</artifactId>
    <version>2.0.4</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.fasterxml.jackson.core</groupId>
    <artifactId>jackson-databind</artifactId>
    <version>2.10.3</version>
</dependency>
```
```

<div class="comment" markdown="1">
You can add all frontend dependencies as [Webjars](https://www.webjars.org/), which can be built directly from NPM.
If something is available on NPM, it's also available as a Webjar, but as a prebuilt dist version (it has no dependencies).
To view the full POM, please go to [GitHub](https://github.com/TareqK/javalinmithril-example/blob/master/pom.xml).
</div>

> Now that we have all our dependencies in order, we need to configure our web server. Lets start off with 2 classes : the Main class, and the app class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have all our dependencies in order, we need to configure our web server. Lets start off with 2 classes : the `Main` class, and the `App` class.
```

> Starting off, our Main class, in `/src/main/java/io/javalinmithril/demo/Main.java` is just a wrapper class(which I add because I am a sad non-kotlin boi :C  and I like neat class names too much C: ) that calls and starts our App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting off, our Main class, in `/src/main/java/io/javalinmithril/demo/Main.java`, is just a wrapper class that calls and starts our App:
```

```java
import io.javalin.Javalin
package io.javalin.javalinmithril.demo;

public class Main {
    
    public static void main(String[] args){
        new App().start();
    }
}
```

Our App class, which has the start method, looks like this

```java

> ...

Reviewer: I wouldn't omit the class/imports, but up to you.

Author: It's a verbosity thing they are there in the code

private Javalin app;

public void start(){
    app = Javalin.create();
    app.config.enableWebjars();
    JavalinMithril.configure(config -> {
            config.isDev(true)
                    .stateFunction((ctx) -> singletonMap("currentUser", currentUser(ctx)));
    });
    ...
    app.start(7000);
}
...

```

> Notice the `JavalinMithirl.configure` method. We are basically telling the plugin to work in dev mode, and giving it the state function that will be injected into each component - in this case, its the name of the logged in user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the `JavalinMithirl.configure` method. We are basically telling the plugin to work in dev mode, and giving it the state function that will be injected into each component - in this case, its the name of the logged in user.
```

We also need an HTML file to load our dependencies and to initialize Mithril. \\
Let's create `/src/main/resources/mithril/layout.html`:

```markup
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf8"/>
        <script src="@cdnWebjar/mithril/2.0.4/mithril.min.js"></script>

>         <style>

Reviewer: Either leave the style tag out, or put something in it?

Author: The elipsis are supposed to denote the style is there

            ...
        </style>
        @componentRegistration
    </head>
    <body>

    </body>
    <script>
        m.mount(document.body, {view:()=>@routeComponent})
    </script>
</html>
```

> There are two Javalin specific things here: `@componentRegistration` and `@routeComponent`. The JavalinMithril plugin will scan your `/resources/mithril` folder and put all the dependencies you have imported in your current component into  into `@componentRegistration`, similar to how libraries are loaded via `<script>` tags. It will also will also let you choose one component to mount based on the current URL, this is the `@routeComponent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two JavalinMithril specific things here: `@componentRegistration` and `@routeComponent`. The JavalinMithril plugin will scan your `/resources/mithril` folder and put all the dependencies you have imported in your current component into `@componentRegistration`, similar to how libraries are loaded via `<script>` tags. It will also will also let you choose one component to mount based on the current URL, this is the `@routeComponent`.
```

<div class="comment" markdown="1">

> its important to note that there are differences between `m.mount` and `m.render`, but this is something you can refer to the mithril.js docs to figure out. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its important to note that there are differences between `m.mount` and `m.render`, but this is something you can refer to the mithril.js docs to figure out. 
```

Reviewer: Instead of making `m.mount` and `m.render` code tags, maybe make them links to the docs?

</div>

## Hello World

Now that we have a layout file, let's create `/resources/mithril/hello-world.js`:

```javascript
/*
 @package io.javalin.mithril.demo;
 */
class HelloWorld {
    constructor() {

    }

    view(vnode) {
        return m("div",[
                m("h1.hello-world", "Hello World !"),
                m("a", {href: "/users"}, "View user Overview"),
            ]
        )
    }
}
```

Here we are telling JavlainMithril that we are declaring a `HelloWorld` class. Notice the `@package` directive, which tells us that this class is in the package `io.javalin.mithril.demo`. Also Notice that there is no CSS here, The CSS can be put in multiple places, such as in a `<style/>` block of the header file, or imported using Javalin Static files, or imported via CDN. You can put these directives in a block comment(notice the space above and below the directives), if your IDE or editor is giving you issues, and they work fine there.

To display our component to the user, we need to tell Javalin when to show it. Lets add a new route to our application

> ```kotlin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

                m("span", "Javalin Mithril Demo App"),
                    window.javalin.state.currentUser ? m("span", `Current User : '${window.javalin.state.currentUser}'`) : null,
                ]),
            vnode.attrs.content
            ]
        )
    }
}

```

## Conclusion
We've created a fully working (but pretty limited) admin interface with only a few files.
* `App.java` contains the server config (routes, error handlers, access management)
* `UserController.java` contains the list of fake users, and methods to get them (getAll, getOne)
* `layout.html` loads the frontend dependencies and initializes Mithril
* `app-frame.js` has a header and some global styling which is included in all components
* `user-overview.js` displays a list of users
* `user-profile.js` displays additional details for one user (requires login)
* `not-found.js` displays a 404 error page
* `user-model.js` contains the ViewModel for users
* `pom.xml` contains all our dependencies

Since our frontend dependencies are prepacked WebJars, we don't need NPM, and we don't need to
manage any frontend libraries manually. The project structure is very clean:

<div class="compressed-code" markdown="1">

> ```kotlin

Reviewer: Not kotlin

Author: right, ill fix it

javalinvue-example
├───src
│   └─── main
│       └───java
│       |   ├───io/javalinmithril/demo
│       |        └───'Java Source Code'
│       └───resources/mihtril
│               └───app-frame.js
│               └───not-found.js
│               └───user-overview.js
│               └───user-profile.js
|               └───user-model.js
│               └───layout.html
└───pom.xml
```
<style>.compressed-code .highlighter-rouge pre code { line-height: 1.2; }</style>
</div>

That's about it. The Afterword contains a bit more discussion about this technique,
but similarly to the Background section you can skip it if you're not that interested. **Thanks for reading**!

### Afterword

> The Library is still in its early days. However, there is a lot of potential here for growing front-ends without the associated tool-chain complexities, keeping a small overhead/request - and keeping that overhead consistent, even as your application grows in features and complexity. While Mithril.js is designed around single-page applications, it just has so much our of the box that when we were considering the hyperscript framework to use for this plugin(Trust me when I say, it was even more bonkers than it is right now. Who even writes an import and package system?), we just decided to go with it because of the (outwardly looking) reactive nature, performance, and built in XHR functionality. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Library is still in its early days. However, there is a lot of potential here for growing front-ends without the associated tool-chain complexities, keeping a small overhead/request - and keeping that overhead consistent, even as your application grows in features and complexity. While Mithril.js is designed around single-page applications, it just offers so much out of the box that when we were considering the hyperscript framework to use for this plugin (trust me when I say, it was even more bonkers than it is right now - who even writes an import and package system?), we just decided to go with it because of the (outwardly looking) reactive nature, performance, and built in XHR functionality. 
```
